Update learn-hyperbridge.md (#5507)
w3f/polkadot-wiki: docs/learn/learn-hyperbridge.md

keywords: [bridge, polkadot, ethereum]
slug: ../learn-hyperbridge
---

import RPC from "./../../components/RPC-Connection";

:::info Learn about Parachain and Bridges

> To fully follow the material on this page, it is recommended to be familiar with the concepts of the [Parachain](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/learn-parachains) and [Bridges](./learn-bridges.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To fully follow the material on this page, it is recommended to be familiar with the concepts of [Parachain](./learn-parachains) and [Bridges](./learn-bridges.md).
```

:::

> Interoperability is the core vision of the Polkadot technology. Through years of blockchain development, there has been many effort into making a secure interoperability solution to communicate between blockchains.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Interoperability is the core vision of the {{ polkadot: Polkadot :polkadot }}{{ kusama: Kusama :kusama }} technology. Through years of blockchain development, much effort has been put into making a secure interoperability solution between blockchains.
```

> With that vision in mind, Hyperbridge (short for hyper-scalable bridge) is innovated as a cross-chain solution built as an interoperability coprocessor. Hyperbridge is crafted to scale cryptographically secure, consensus, and state-proof-based interoperability across all blockchains. Before diving deeper into the core technology of the Hyperbridge, let's go through a first few foundational concepts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hyperbridge (short for hyper-scalable bridge) is innovated as a cross-chain solution built as an interoperability coprocessor. Hyperbridge is crafted to scale cryptographically secure, consensus, and state-proof-based interoperability across all blockchains.
```

## Coprocessor Model

Ensuring secure cross-chain communication involves the meticulous verification of various aspects, including: [Consensus Mechanisms](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/learn-consensus), [Consensus Faults](https://research.polytope.technology/consensus-proofs), [State Proofs](https://research.polytope.technology/state-machine-proofs) and [State Transitions](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/learn-parachains#state-transitions).

> What is a coprocessor?
>
> **Coprocessor**, in the context of hardware, can be referred to a microprocessor designed to supplement the capabilities of the primary processor. For example, GPU is a coprocessor of the CPU to be optimized for graphical and simultaneous computation.

Due to the complexity and expensiveness of the onchain verification process, in coprocessor model, the computation is performed off-chain and the outcomes of the execution, along with cryptographic proofs validating their accuracy, are subsequently presented on-chain.

> Expanding more about the coprocessor model, it has been applied in other solutions of offloading cryptographic computation as well, particularly, **SNARK coprocessor model**.

Reviewer: any link to SNARK coprocessor model?

### Parachain as Coprocessors

By leveraging the cost-effective consensus proofs facilitated by [BEEFY](https://spec.polkadot.network/sect-finality#sect-grandpa-beefy), Hyperbridge affirms the legitimacy of all parachain state transitions safeguarded by the network.

This capability enables the distribution of the validation workload for consensus, state proofs, and state transition re-execution across various designated [Parachain Cores](https://github.com/polkadot-fellows/RFCs/blob/6f29561a4747bbfd95307ce75cd949dfff359e39/text/0001-agile-coretime.md). Hence, Polkadot is utilized by the Hyperbridge as a verifiable computation layer to provide the ["Full Node Security"](https://blog.polytope.technology/introducing-hyperbridge-interoperability-coprocessor#full-node-level-security) in cross-chain bridges.

Hence, an additional layer of security is provided, allowing Hyperbridge to detect and prevent [Byzantine](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Byzantine_fault) behaviors across connected chains.

### Interoperable State Machine Protocol (ISMP)

> Interoperable State Machine Protocol (ISMP) provides a familiar HTTP-like API for developers who want to make cross-chain requests to trigger certain logic on the counterparty chain. It allows making POST requests to send arbitrary data to connected chains, as well as GET requests to read the storage (verified through state proofs) of applications on connected chains.

Reviewer: Link to ISMP?

In addition to facilitating cross-chain message passing among connected chains, ISMP also serves as a synchronisation primitive across Hyperbridge's internal state machines. This enables its parachain cores to communicate with each other and delegate tasks.

### Underlying technologies

Underlying technologies of the Hyperbridge is integrated with:

> - **PLONK verifier**

Reviewer: link?

- [BEEFY consensus](https://spec.polkadot.network/sect-finality#sect-grandpa-beefy)

> - The Barretenberg backend

Reviewer: link? Or brief explanation?
